---
layout: protocol
category: protocol
published: true
title: "Purification of His-HRV 3C Protease"
author: "Jared Bard"
nickname: 3C Prep
tags: [bacteria, biochemistry]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Reagents
Lysis Buffer (LysB) (pH to 7.5 then filter)

    | Component | Concentration |
    | --------- | ------------- |
    | HEPES     | 25 mM         |
    | NaCl      | 500 mM        |
    | Imidazole | 20 mM         |
    | Glycerol  | 5 %           |

Before use, add 2 mM βME.

Gel Filtration (GF) Buffer (pH to 7.5 then filter)

    | Component | Amount |
    | --------- | ------ |
    | HEPES     | 25 mM  |
    | NaCl      | 150 mM |
    | Glycerol  | 5 %    |

Before use, add 0.5 mM TCEP.

## Protocol
### Grow and Harvest
1. Grow 50 mL overnight in TB + antibiotic at 30 °C
    - inoculate either from plate or cell stock
2. Inoculate 1 L of TB + antibiotic with 10 mL of overnight culture
    - If using carbenicillin, first spin down the overnight (3000g for 10 minutes), and resuspend in fresh TB. This helps remove secreted β-lactamase which will degrade the antibiotic.
3. Grow at 37 °C until OD = 0.5, then turn temperature down to 18 °C
4. After 30 minutes, add IPTG to 0.5 mM (0.5 mL of 1 M stock).
    - _Before adding IPTG, take pre-induction sample (pellet the equivalent of 1 mL of culture at OD = 0.5, resuspend in 50µL sample buffer (SB))_
5. Induce overnight at 18 °C.
6. Spin down culture in 1 L bottles at 3000g for 15 minutes
    - _Take a post-induction samples_
7. Resuspend pellet in 20 mL of Lysis Buffer (LysB, don't need βME) per liter of cells
8. Add protease inhibitors
    - AEBSF/E-64/Leupeptin (200x)
    - Aprotinin (1000x)
    - Pepstatin (1000x)
    - Add lysozyme (50x, 12.5 mg/mL stock)
    - Add 1 µL of nuclease per 50 mL
9. Store in -80 °C freezer

### Purification (everything done at 4 °C)
1. Thaw pellet in water batch, then transfer to metal beaker
2. Sonicate on ice
    - 3 min total, 10 s on, 59 s off, 75% power
    - _Lysate sample (1uL lysate + 19uL SB)_
3. Spin at 30,000 rcf for 30 minutes to pellet debris and unlysed cells.
4. Carefully pour supernatant into beaker
    - _Sup sample (1uL sup + 19uL SB)_
5. Remove superloop, rinse with H20, then fill with LysB (+ 2 mM βME) and attach back to FPLC
6. Use 25 mL syringe to inject sample into loop (or load onto column using akta prime pump)
    - Collect flow through _NiFT (1uL FT + 19uL SB)_
7. Load sample onto 5 mL HisTrap at flow = 1.5 mL/min
8. Wash with 50 mL of LysB (add 2 mM βME first)
9. Wash with 50 mL of LysB + 20 mM imidazole (40 mM final)
10. Elute with LysB + 280 mM imidazole
    - _NiEl sample (5 uL elution + 15 uL SB)_
11. Clean histrap
    - 15 mL 500 mM imidazole
    - 15 mL water
    - 5 mL stripping buffer (50 mM EDTA, 500 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris 7.4)
    - Water
    - 1 M NaOH if necessary
    - 30% isopropanol if necessary
    - 15 mL water
    - 2.5 mL 0.1 M NiSO4
    - 15 mL water
    - 15 mL 20% EtOH
11. Concentrate down to 0.5 mL in appropriate concentrator
12. Equilibrate size exclusion column (SEC) with water, then GF (+ 0.5 mM TCEP)
13. Attach and clean 1 mL loop
14. Prepare fraction tubes
15. Spin sample at max speed for 15 minutes (or filter through 0.2 µM spin filter)
16. Load into loop
    1. Switch to inject
    2. Clean injection port with buffer
    3. Load syringe with sample, insert into port and push a tiny amount through
    4. Switch back to load, then push sample into loop
17. Run program, watch for sample injection and fractionation
18. Equilibrate column back into water then 20% EtOH
19. Run gel of fractions
20. Pool and concentrate
21. Measure concentration (Bradford or A280)
22. Aliquot and snap freeze in liquid nitrogen
