---
layout: paper
title: "Discovery and prioritization of somatic mutations in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) by whole-exome sequencing" 
year: "2012"
shortref: "Lohr et al. PNAS 2012"
nickname: mutsig-2_0
journal: "PNAS"
volume: 109
issue: 10
pages: 3879-3884
authors: "Lohr J, Stojanov P, Lawrence M, Auclair D, Chapuy B, Sougnez C, Curz-Gordillo P, Knoechel B, Asmann YW, Slager SL, Novak AJ, Dogan A, Ansell SM, Link BK, Zou L, Gould J, Saksena G, Stransky N, Rangel-Escareno C, Fernandez-Lopez JC, Hidalgo-Miranda A, Melendez-Zajgla J, Hernandez-Lemus E, Schwarz-Cruz A, Imaz-Rosshandler I, Ojesina AI, Jung J, Pedamallu CS, Lander ES, Habermann TM, Cerhan JR, Shipp MA, Getz G, Golub TR"
first_authors: "Lohr J"
senior_authors: "Golub TR"
corresponding_authors: "Lander ES"
image: /assets/images/papers/Lohr_PNAS2012_Fig1.png
pdf:
pdflink: https://www.pnas.org/content/pnas/109/10/3879.full.pdf
github:
pmid: 22343534
pmcid: PMC3309757
doi: 10.1073/pnas.1121343109
category: paper
published: true
peerreview: true
tags: [Driver discovery]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract

To gain insight into the genomic basis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), we performed massively parallel whole-exome sequencing of 55 primary tumor samples from patients with DLBCL and matched normal tissue. We identified recurrent mutations in genes that are well known to be functionally relevant in DLBCL, including MYD88, CARD11, EZH2, and CREBBP. We also identified somatic mutations in genes for which a functional role in DLBCL has not been previously suspected. These genes include MEF2B, MLL2, BTG1, GNA13, ACTB, P2RY8, PCLO, and TNFRSF14. Further, we show that BCL2 mutations commonly occur in patients with BCL2/IgH rearrangements as a result of somatic hypermutation normally occurring at the IgH locus. The BCL2 point mutations are primarily synonymous, and likely caused by activation-induced cytidine deaminase–mediated somatic hypermutation, as shown by comprehensive analysis of enrichment of mutations in WRCY target motifs. Those nonsynonymous mutations that are observed tend to be found outside of the functionally important BH domains of the protein, suggesting that strong negative selection against BCL2 loss-of-function mutations is at play. Last, by using an algorithm designed to identify likely functionally relevant but infrequent mutations, we identify KRAS, BRAF, and NOTCH1 as likely drivers of DLBCL pathogenesis in some patients. Our data provide an unbiased view of the landscape of mutations in DLBCL, and this in turn may point toward new therapeutic strategies for the disease.

