---
layout: post
title: "Contact Us"
description: "Contact and recruitment information"
contact: true
category: misc
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<a class="anchor" id="contact"></a>

<div class="bigtitle text-center">Contact Us</div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>

Phone: (305) 348-0464  
Email: [neurolab@fiu.edu](mailto:neurolab@fiu.edu)

### Mailing Address
Academic Health Center 4 Room 380  
Miami, Florida 33174

On the [map], Academic Health Center (AHC) 4 is the rectangular building under the marker. Our lab is on the third floor, in the western side of the building.

[map]: https://www.google.com/maps/place/Academic+Health+Center+4,+Miami,+FL+33174/@25.7593031,-80.3744721,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x88d9bf2e7705ee3f:0x3581f2208ba26078!8m2!3d25.7592828!4d-80.3723193

<hr/>

<a class="anchor" id="join"></a>

<div class="bigtitle text-center">Join the Team</div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>

The Neuroinformatics and Brain Connectivity Laboratory is always looking for exceptional students and personnel to join the team. **We are currently looking for graduate students for the 2018-2019 academic year and we are still accepting applications from undergraduate students to work on various projects.** More information on these training opportunities can be found below.

# Graduate Students
Located in Miami, FIU is Florida’s fastest growing public research university, the fourth largest university in the nation, and one of nation’s largest Hispanic-Serving Institutions. The Cognitive Neuroscience Program is part of a campus-wide initiative to further develop brain research and brain education through interdisciplinary collaborations.

At FIU, the Neuroinformatics and Brain Connectivity (NBC) Laboratory, directed by Dr. Angela Laird (Department of Physics) and co-directed by Dr. Matthew Sutherland (Department of Psychology), provides students with a truly interdisciplinary training environment. The NBC Laboratory focuses on understanding activity within and interactions between brain regions in healthy individuals and those diagnosed with psychiatric disorders and diseases. Research in the NBC Laboratory is centered around magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with emphasis on the development of neuroimaging data analysis tools, the impact of drug abuse on human brain function, and the brain mechanisms associated with student learning during STEM training. Funded through grants from the NIH and NSF, the NBC Laboratory is seeking motivated and energetic individuals to join the group.

We are currently looking for graduate students in either physics or psychology. Applications to FIU's Cognitive Neuroscience doctoral program in Psychology for the 2018-2019 academic year are due in December, 2017. More information about the Cognitive Neuroscience doctoral program and admission for the upcoming academic year is available [here](http://cn.fiu.edu). Applicants to the Physics graduate program may learn more at the program's [website](https://physics.fiu.edu/graduate-program/).

# Undergraduate Students
Undergraduate students working in the NBC Lab may contribute to one of several ongoing projects. These research activities may include assisting with literature searches and/or the collection, processing, and analysis of neuroimaging (fMRI) data. As this typically necessitates extensive training, a commitment of at least three semesters is needed to take full advantage of these research opportunities.

The NBC Lab focuses on understanding activity within and interactions between brain regions in healthy individuals and those diagnosed with psychiatric disorders and diseases. Research in the Lab focuses on the development of neuroimaging data analysis tools, the impact of drugs abuse on brain function, and the brain mechanisms associated with student learning during STEM training. The NBC Lab, directed by Dr. Angela Laird (Department of Physics) and Dr. Matthew Sutherland (Department of Psychology), provides students with a truly interdisciplinary training environment. Such training is geared to those students who wish to pursue graduate training in the field of cognitive neuroscience.

Interested students should download and complete the following application: [NBC Lab RA Application](/assets/files/applications/RA_application_NBC_lab.doc). Please send completed applications by email to [neurolab@fiu.edu](mailto:neurolab@fiu.edu?subject=NBC Lab undergraduate research application). Your application materials should be attached to an email with the following subject line: “NBC Lab undergraduate research application.”

<hr/>

<a class="anchor" id="participate"></a>

<div class="bigtitle text-center">Participate in a Study</div>
<div class="bigspacer"></div>

We are conducting a number of studies at any given time, each with different participation criteria. If you are interested in participating in a specific study, please see the project page, which will have a "Participation" section if we are recruiting participants. Otherwise, please feel free to contact us via email or on the phone.
